Add documentation on accounts and key management (#653)
MetaMask/metamask-docs: docs/guide/snaps-concepts.md

# Concepts

[[toc]]

## Accounts and Key Management

The Snaps API contains functionality that allows you to manage users' private keys, with their approval. This capability comes with great responsiblity on the part of the developer: misplaced or stolen private keys will lead to a complete loss of funds for the users of the snap. Our team has developed some guidelines to help you assess the feasibility and sanity of your snap.

### Key Management Guidelines

The general guideline for responsible key management is:

> Don't create a situation where your user can lose money

In practice, here are some examples that would break the above policy:

> 1. Allowing extraction of private keys outside the snap in any way, especially through RPC or network connections
> 2. Arbitrary code execution with access to private keys
> 3. Not informing the user properly or not getting informed consent before doing a destructive operation, for example a transaction
> 4. Asking for consent but ignoring the decison
> 5. A bug that leads to any of the above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Allowing extraction of private keys outside the snap in any way, especially through RPC or network connections
2. Arbitrary code execution with access to private keys.
3. Not informing the user properly or not getting informed consent before doing a destructive operation, for example a transaction.
4. Asking for consent but ignoring the decision.
5. A bug that leads to any of the above.
```

And here are some examples of abiding by the above policy:

> 1. Manipulation of the private keys, their storage in snaps' persistent storage, without them ever leaving the Snaps Secure EcmaScript sandbox
> 2. Arbitrary code execution without access to destructive operations nor private keys
> 3. Doing destructive operations -- for example transactions --, one, multiple, or even creating an allowance without further confirmations, with prior informing the user of what's going to happen in an a way that a layman can understand and asking for consent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Manipulation of the private keys, their storage in snaps' persistent storage, without them ever leaving the Snaps Secure EcmaScript sandbox.
2. Arbitrary code execution without access to destructive operations nor private keys.
3. Doing destructive operations -- for example transactions --, one, multiple, or even creating an allowance without further confirmations, with prior informing the user of what's going to happen in an a way that a layman can understand and asking for consent.
```

### How to derive keys

To derive a user's private keys, you need to:

1. Figure out whether you'll be using the BIP-32 or BIP-44 specifications to derive the user's private keys. BIP-44 is more strict in the structure and shape of the derivation paths, while BIP-32 allows for more flexibility.

> 2. Find out the derivation path that you need to use. For example, if you're trying to derive keys for Dogecoin, the path is of the form `m/44'/3'/0'/0/{account_index}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Find out the derivation path that you need to use. For example, if you're trying to derive keys for Dogecoin, the path is of the form `m/44'/3'/0'/0/{address_index}`.
```

3. Add the required permission to your manifest file
4. Write code in your snap to derive the keys. This will usually be done using the `@metamask/key-tree` NPM package. Any further code to e.g. derive addresses from the keys will be custom code that depends on your application.

### Figuring out whether to use BIP-32 or BIP-44

If the keys you are trying to derive conform to the BIP-44 structure, that is:

```
m / purpose' / coin_type' / account' / change / address_index
```

Then you should use [`snap_getBip44Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip44entropy) to derive your keys. Its permissions are simpler, since it requires only a coin type.

> If the key ayou are trying to derive do not conform to the BIP-44 structure, then you should use [`snap_getBip32Entropy`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the key you are trying to derive do not conform to the BIP-44 structure, then you should use [`snap_getBip32Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip32entropy).
```

### Finding out the derivation path

The derivation path is completely dependent on the application you're building. As an example, if you're trying to reproduce the Dogecoin derivation path, that would be:

```

> m/44'/3'/0'/0/{account_index}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
m/44'/3'/0'/0/{address_index}
```

```

> This means that you'd be using [`snap_getBip44Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip44entropy) with the permission `coinType` having a value of `60`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that you'd be using [`snap_getBip44Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip44entropy) with the permission `coinType` having a value of `3`.
```

### Adding permissions to the manifest file

For `snap_getBip44Entropy`, you only need to specify the `coinType`, like this:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "snap_getBip44Entropy": [
      {
        "coinType": 3 // 3 is Dogecoin
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> The authoritative list of coin types is defined in [`SLIP-44`](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authoritative list of coin types is defined in [`SLIP-44`](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md).
```

### Example of private key derivation

As an example, if you're trying to derive Dogecoin keys:

> 1. Dogecoin uses the BIP-44 scheme so we'll be using [`snap_getBip44Entropy`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Dogecoin uses the BIP-44 scheme so we'll be using [`snap_getBip44Entropy`].
```

2. Dogecoin has coin type `3`, so our manifest file will have the following:

   ```json
   {
     "initialPermissions": {
       "snap_getBip44Entropy": [
         {
           "coinType": 3
         }
       ]
     }

>      // other values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     // Other values
```

   }
   ```

3. Dogecoin uses the following derivation path:

   ```

>    m/44'/3'/0'/0/{account_index}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   m/44'/3'/0'/0/{address_index}
```

   ```

   To get the second Dogecoin account, we would write the following code:

   ```javascript
   import { getBIP44AddressKeyDeriver } from '@metamask/key-tree';

   // Get the Dogecoin node, corresponding to the path m/44'/3'

>    const dogecoinNode = await wallet.request({

Reviewer: I don't think `snap.request` is released yet, but we should either use that here and wait with merging this PR, or make a note to update this.

```suggestion
   const dogecoinNode = await snap.request({
```

# Concepts

[[toc]]

## Accounts and Key Management

> Snaps contain functionality that allows you to manage users' private keys, with their approval. This capability comes with great responsiblity on the part of the developer: misplaced or stolen private keys will lead to a complete loss of funds for the users of the Snap. Our team has developed some guidelines to help you assess the feasibility and sanity of your Snap project.

Reviewer 2: "Snaps API" is singular so it should be "Snaps contain**s** functionality"

then, "for the users of the snap." (lowercase) and "your snap project." (also lowercase)

### Key Management Guidelines

The general guideline for responsible key management is:

> Don't create a situation where your user can lose money

In practice, here are some examples that would break the above policy:

1. Allowing extraction of private keys outside the snap in any way, especially through RPC or network connections
2. Arbitrary code execution with access to private keys
3. Not informing the user properly or not getting informed consent before doing a destructive operation, for example a transaction
4. Asking for consent but ignoring the decison
5. A bug that leads to any of the above

And here are some examples of abiding by the above policy:

> 1. Manipulation of the private keys, their storage in snaps' persistent storage, without them ever leaving the Snaps SES sandbox

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Manipulation of the private keys, their storage in snaps' persistent storage, without them ever leaving the Snaps Secure EcmaScript sandbox
```

> 2. Arbitrary code execution without access to destructive operations nor private keys

Reviewer 3: "destructive operations" is only implicltly defined in the break policy point (3), people might miss the definition

3. Doing destructive operations, one, multiple, or even creating an allowance without further confirmations, with prior informing the user of what's going to happen in an a way that a layman can understand and asking for consent

### How to derive keys

To derive a user's private keys, you need to:

1. Figure out whether you'll be using the BIP-32 or BIP-44 specifications to derive the user's private keys. BIP-44 is more strict in the structure and shape of the derivation paths, while BIP-32 allows for more flexibility.

> 2. Find out the derivation path that you need to use. For example, if you're trying to derive the same keys that MetaMask derives for user accounts, the path is of the form `m/44'/60'/0'/0/{account_index}`.

Reviewer 2: There's probably a better way to word this. We do not want to allow snaps to derive the same accounts that MetaMask has -- we might block this derivation path. Maybe it is: 

"Find out the derivation path that you need to use. For example, if you're trying to derive keys for [chain], the path is of the form `path`.

3. Add the required permission to your manifest file

> 4. Write code in your Snap to derive the keys

Reviewer 2: "Write code in your snap"

[[toc]]

## Accounts and Key Management

> The Snaps API contains functionality that allows you to manage users' private keys, with their approval. This capability comes with great responsiblity on the part of the developer: misplaced or stolen private keys will lead to a complete loss of funds for the users of the snap. Our team has developed some guidelines to help you assess the feasibility and sanity of your snap.

Reviewer 4: We should try to avoid "we-messaging" in documentation like this.

```suggestion
The Snaps API contains functionality that allows you to manage users' private keys, with their approval. This capability comes with great responsibility on part of the developer: Misplaced or stolen private keys may lead to a complete loss of funds for users of the snap. Below are some guidelines to help snap developers assess the feasibility and sanity of their snaps.
```

### Key Management Guidelines

The general guideline for responsible key management is:

> > Don't create a situation where your user can lose money

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Don't create a situation where your user can lose assets
```

Reviewer 4: "Assets" is more general

> In practice, here are some examples that would break the above policy:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In practice, here are some examples that would break this:
```

It's either a guideline or a policy.

1. Allowing extraction of private keys outside the snap in any way, especially through RPC or network connections

> 2. Arbitrary code execution with access to private keys.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Execution of arbitrary/untrusted code with access to private keys.
```

> 3. Not informing the user properly or not getting informed consent before doing a destructive operation, for example a transaction.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Not getting properly informed consent before doing a non-reversible operation (for example submission of a signature or transaction).
```

4. Asking for consent but ignoring the decision.

> 5. A bug that leads to any of the above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Exposing key material in clear-text.
6. A bug that leads to any of the above.
```
(Alternatively, existing 1 could be rewritten to capture things like persisting key material to storage)

And here are some examples of abiding by the above policy:

> 1. Manipulation of the private keys, their storage in snaps' persistent storage, without them ever leaving the Snaps Secure EcmaScript sandbox.

Reviewer 4: It's not clear to me as a developer at this point what this entails. Is Snaps doing this for me? Can we link to a code sample?

> 2. Arbitrary code execution without access to destructive operations nor private keys.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/653/files#r1115110530

Author: @legobeat what is this linking to? I can't seem to see the deep link

3. Doing destructive operations -- for example transactions --, one, multiple, or even creating an allowance without further confirmations, with prior informing the user of what's going to happen in an a way that a layman can understand and asking for consent.

### How to derive keys

To derive a user's private keys, you need to:

1. Figure out whether you'll be using the BIP-32 or BIP-44 specifications to derive the user's private keys. BIP-44 is more strict in the structure and shape of the derivation paths, while BIP-32 allows for more flexibility.
2. Find out the derivation path that you need to use. For example, if you're trying to derive keys for Dogecoin, the path is of the form `m/44'/3'/0'/0/{address_index}`.

> 3. Add the required permission to your manifest file

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Add the required permission to your manifest file.
```

> 4. Write code in your snap to derive the keys. This will usually be done using the `@metamask/key-tree` NPM package. Any further code to e.g. derive addresses from the keys will be custom code that depends on your application.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Write code in your snap to derive the keys. This will typically be done using the `@metamask/key-tree` package. Any further code to e.g. derive addresses from keys will be application-specific.
```

### Figuring out whether to use BIP-32 or BIP-44

If the keys you are trying to derive conform to the BIP-44 structure, that is:

```
m / purpose' / coin_type' / account' / change / address_index
```

Then you should use [`snap_getBip44Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip44entropy) to derive your keys. Its permissions are simpler, since it requires only a coin type.

If the key you are trying to derive do not conform to the BIP-44 structure, then you should use [`snap_getBip32Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip32entropy).

### Finding out the derivation path

The derivation path is completely dependent on the application you're building. As an example, if you're trying to reproduce the Dogecoin derivation path, that would be:

```
m/44'/3'/0'/0/{address_index}
```

> This means that you'd be using [`snap_getBip44Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip44entropy) with the permission `coinType` having a value of `3`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This means that you'd be using [`snap_getBip44Entropy`](./snaps-rpc-api.html#snap-getbip44entropy) with the endowment `coinType` having a value of `3`.
```

Reviewer 4: nvm, i realize now that "endowments" are a subset of "permissions".

### Adding permissions to the manifest file

For `snap_getBip44Entropy`, you only need to specify the `coinType`, like this:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "snap_getBip44Entropy": [
      {
        "coinType": 3 // 3 is Dogecoin
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The authoritative list of coin types is defined in [`SLIP-44`](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md).

### Example of private key derivation

> As an example, if you're trying to derive Dogecoin keys:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As an example, to derive Dogecoin keys:
```
